Edits to Whole-Virus Vaccine text (#1090)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/22.vaccines.md

#### Whole-Virus Vaccines

Whole-virus vaccines have the longest history among vaccine development approaches.
Variolation, which is widely considered the first vaccination strategy in human history, is one example [@doi:10.1016/j.jinf.2005.07.021; @doi:10.1007/978-1-4419-1339-5_2].

> Famously employed against smallpox when healthy individuals were exposed to pus from an infected individual [@doi:10.1016/j.jinf.2005.07.021; @doi:10.1007/978-1-4419-1339-5_2; @doi:10.1377/hlthaff.24.3.611], variolation allowed healthy individuals to be infected with a mild case of a disease.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Famously employed against smallpox when healthy individuals were exposed to pus from an individual infected with what was believed to be either cowpox or horsepox [@doi:10.1016/j.jinf.2005.07.021; @doi:10.1007/978-1-4419-1339-5_2; @doi:10.1377/hlthaff.24.3.611; @doi:10.1016/j.vaccine.2017.11.003], variolation allowed healthy individuals to be infected with a mild case of a disease.
```

> Whole-virus vaccines can confer adaptive immunity, but they also face safety concerns [@doi:10.1016/j.virol.2015.03.032; @doi:10.3389/fimmu.2019.00594; @doi:10.1377/hlthaff.24.3.611].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whole-virus vaccines can confer adaptive immunity, they also face safety concerns [@doi:10.1016/j.virol.2015.03.032; @doi:10.3389/fimmu.2019.00594; @doi:10.1377/hlthaff.24.3.611].
```

CoronaVac demonstrated an efficacy of a little over 50% in Brazil, which was contested by Turkish officials claiming an efficacy of 91.25%, but ultimately after multiple announcements, the efficacy debate was settled at over 50% [@url:https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-sinovac-brazil/brazil-institute-says-coronavac-efficacy-above-50-but-delays-full-results-idUSKBN28X2CR; @url:https://www.nytimes.com/2020/12/25/health/turkey-brazil-sinovac-coronavirus-vaccine.html].
Subsequently, an interim analysis of the phase III randomized placebo-controlled trials conducted in Turkey enrolling 10,214 participants (~2:1 vaccine:placebo) indicated efficacy of 83.5%, with minimal side effects reported [@doi:10/gk898z], and a prospective national cohort study in Chile reported an adjusted estimated effectiveness of 66% for the prevention of COVID-19 with an estimated 90% and 87% prevention of hospitalization and death, respectively [@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa2107715].
Therefore, it is difficult to ascribe a particular efficacy to these vaccines given the variation in reports.

> However, concern has been raised about the efficacy of CoronaVac following reports that over 350 doctors became ill with COVID-19 in Indonesia despite being immunized with CoronaVac [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/22/business/economy/china-vaccines-covid-outbreak.html].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, concern was raised about the efficacy of CoronaVac following reports that over 350 doctors became ill with COVID-19 in Indonesia despite being immunized with CoronaVac [@url:https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/22/business/economy/china-vaccines-covid-outbreak.html].
```

Reviewer: Maybe good to mention this one too https://doi.org/10.1038/s41591-022-01705-6
